readme.md, before:

# Bitcoin Pod

The purpose of bitcoin_pod is to setup a [bitcoin](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin) full node configured to run behind [Tor](https://www.torproject.org/) by default while running inside rootless containers.

All containers are intended to be ephemeral.
By default if you need to modify a configuration file, you will then need to restart that container for the change to take affect.

## Prerequisites

### Dependencies

* [podman](https://podman.io/getting-started/installation.html) (tested with v2.0.3)
  * currently only supports podman for "pods" support, but could be modified to use docker
* debian-based host
  * only tested successfully on raspbian hosts

### Remote access via ssh tunnels (optional)

if you want to access exposed bitcoin_pod ports from a local machine, but your containers are hosted on a remote server, a good way to accomplish this is by setting setup a secure connection with a background SSH tunnel.
You can then access bitcoin_pod exposed ports as if the container host was running locally.

Run the following on the local machine:

```sh
ssh -fNT -L localhost:{port}:{host-or-ip}:{port} {host-or-ip}
```

### Encrypted disk (optional)

You probably want to ensure that podman will save its data to an encrypted portion of your disk.
If your entire disk is encrypted, then you can skip this.

The simplest way I've found to have podman create its data on a separate encrypted device is to use a symbolic link.

```sh
cp -rp ~/.local/share/containers ~/my_mounts/my_encrypted_drive
ln -s ~/my_mounts/my_encrypted_drive/containers ~/.local/share/containers
```

## Create Pod

Create the bitcoin_pod to house the various containers and allow them to selectively share resources.

* 8332 is default bitcoin RPC server
* 50002 is default electrum personal server

Add or remove ports exposed to the host as needed.
The below command is the default.

```sh
podman pod create --name bitcoin_pod -p 8332:8332 -p 50002:50002
```

## Logs

Default log volume mounts have been setup so that logs can be viewed from the host machine and will persist between container restarts and deletions.
See individual application `Run` sections for details.

## Tor

### Prerequisites

* copy `config/torrc.sample` to `config/torrc`
* update `torrc` if you don't want the default configuration

### Build

```sh
podman build -t tor -f tor.Dockerfile
```

### Run

Follow the log file:

```sh
tail -F /tmp/tor_notices.log
```

```sh
podman run -d --pod bitcoin_pod --name tor_container \
  -v ./config/torrc:/root/torrc `# config` \
  -v tor_cookie_ephemeral:/root/.tor `# tor control cookie` \
  -v /tmp:/var/log/tor `# logs` \
  tor
```

## Bitcoin

### Prerequisites

* copy `config/bitcoin.conf.sample` to `config/bitcoin.conf`
* update `bitcoin.conf` if you don't want the default configuration

### Build

The following architectures are currently supported:

* `bitcoin-0.20.0-arm-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz`
* `bitcoin-0.20.0-x86_64-linux-gnu.tar.gz`

With no `bitcoin_tarball` argument, arm-32 will be the default.

```sh
podman build -t bitcoin -f bitcoin.Dockerfile \
  --build-arg bitcoin_tarball=bitcoin-0.20.0-arm-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz
```

### Run

Follow the log file:

```sh
tail -F ~/bitcoin_data/debug.log
```

Replace `bitcoin_data` with your [bitcoin data directory](https://en.bitcoinwiki.org/wiki/Data_directory) on your host machine, or create a symbolic link of the directory into your home folder with the  name `bitcoin_data`.
Mounting this folder will ensure bitcoin data will be persistent.

```sh
podman run -d --pod bitcoin_pod --name bitcoin_container \
  -v ./config/bitcoin.conf:/root/bitcoin.conf `# config` \
  -v ~/bitcoin_data:/root/.bitcoin `# bitcoin data` \
  -v tor_cookie_ephemeral:/root/.tor `# tor control cookie` \
  bitcoin
```

## Electrum Personal Server

### Prerequisites

#### Setup config

* copy `config/config.ini_sample` to `config/config.ini`
* update `config.ini` with your master public key(s) in the `[master-public-keys]` section
* update additional configs as needed

#### Create wallet

EPS recommends creating an EPS specific wallet in your full node.

The following can be executed on your running bitcoin full node container:

```sh
podman exec bitcoin_container bitcoin-0.20.0/bin/bitcoin-cli createwallet electrumpersonalserver true
```

#### Rescan wallet (optional)

if you need to load in historical transactions you will need to run the container with a one-time command with the blockheight of your earliest transaction.

```sh
bitcoin-cli -rpcwallet=electrumpersonalserver rescanblockchain 641755
```

An alternative is to run EPS' rescan script which determines blockheight based upon date input.
See EPS documentation for more details.

```sh
.local/bin/electrum-personal-server --rescan config.ini
```

You can also use the `rescan.py` in this project, extracted from EPS, if you have access to `bitcoin-cli`

```sh
python3 rescan.py
```

### Build

```sh
podman build -t electrum_server -f electrum_server.Dockerfile
```

### Run

Follow the log file:

```sh
tail -F /tmp/electrumpersonalserver.log
```

The first time EPS is run with a particular bitcoin full node, it will import the addresses and then exit.  After this occurs you must run `podman start electrum_server_container` to re-start the container and start the actual server.  On Subsequent runs, the application need only be run once.

```sh
podman run -d --pod bitcoin_pod --name electrum_server_container \
  -v ./config/eps-config.ini:/root/eps-config.ini `# config` \
  -v ~/bitcoin_data:/root/.bitcoin `# bitcoin data` \
  -v /tmp:/tmp `# logs` \
  electrum_server
```

## FAQ

* Why am I getting EPS error "Requested wallet does not exist or is not loaded.  Wallet related RPC call failed, possibly the bitcoin node was compiled with the disable wallet flag"?
  * run the following on your full node:
  * `bitcoin-cli loadwallet electrumpersonalserver`
  * if the above doesn't work, your node's wallet may be corrupt and may need to be re-created, and then re-scanned.
* Why is `podman pod start bitcoin_pod` not reliable?
  * Because some of these containers rely on the other containers to be running or have ports open, it is better to start the containers sequentially when they rely on one another.

## Todo/Limitations

* app versions are hard-coded

Commit message:

update readme w/ new docker exec commands

readme.md, after:

# Bitcoin Pod

The purpose of bitcoin_pod is to setup a [bitcoin](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin) full node configured to run behind [Tor](https://www.torproject.org/) by default while running inside rootless containers.

All containers are intended to be ephemeral.
By default if you need to modify a configuration file, you will then need to restart that container for the change to take affect.

## Prerequisites

### Dependencies

* [podman](https://podman.io/getting-started/installation.html) (tested with v2.0.3)
  * currently only supports podman for "pods" support, but could be modified to use docker
* debian-based host
  * only tested successfully on raspbian hosts

### Remote access via ssh tunnels (optional)

if you want to access exposed bitcoin_pod ports from a local machine, but your containers are hosted on a remote server, a good way to accomplish this is by setting setup a secure connection with a background SSH tunnel.
You can then access bitcoin_pod exposed ports as if the container host was running locally.

Run the following on the local machine:

```sh
ssh -fNT -L localhost:{port}:localhost:{port} {ssh-name-or-host-or-ip}
```

### Encrypted disk (optional)

You probably want to ensure that podman will save its data to an encrypted portion of your disk.
If your entire disk is encrypted, then you can skip this.

The simplest way I've found to have podman create its data on a separate encrypted device is to use a symbolic link.

```sh
cp -rp ~/.local/share/containers ~/my_mounts/my_encrypted_drive
ln -s ~/my_mounts/my_encrypted_drive/containers ~/.local/share/containers
```

## Create Pod

Create the bitcoin_pod to house the various containers and allow them to selectively share resources.

* 8332 is default bitcoin RPC server
* 50002 is default electrum personal server

Add or remove ports exposed to the host as needed.
The below command is the default.

```sh
podman pod create --name bitcoin_pod -p 8332:8332 -p 50002:50002
```

## Logs

Default log volume mounts have been setup so that logs can be viewed from the host machine and will persist between container restarts and deletions.
See individual application `Run` sections for details.

## Tor

### Prerequisites

* copy `config/torrc.sample` to `config/torrc`
* update `torrc` if you don't want the default configuration

### Build

```sh
podman build -t tor -f tor.Dockerfile
```

### Run

Follow the log file:

```sh
tail -F /tmp/tor_notices.log
```

```sh
podman run -d --pod bitcoin_pod --name tor_container \
  -v ./config/torrc:/root/torrc `# config` \
  -v tor_cookie_ephemeral:/root/.tor `# tor control cookie` \
  -v /tmp:/var/log/tor `# logs` \
  tor
```

## Bitcoin

### Prerequisites

* copy `config/bitcoin.conf.sample` to `config/bitcoin.conf`
* update `bitcoin.conf` if you don't want the default configuration

### Build

The following architectures are currently supported:

* `bitcoin-0.20.0-arm-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz`
* `bitcoin-0.20.0-x86_64-linux-gnu.tar.gz`

With no `bitcoin_tarball` argument, arm-32 will be the default.

```sh
podman build -t bitcoin -f bitcoin.Dockerfile \
  --build-arg bitcoin_tarball=bitcoin-0.20.0-arm-linux-gnueabihf.tar.gz
```

### Run

Follow the log file:

```sh
tail -F ~/bitcoin_data/debug.log
```

Replace `bitcoin_data` with your [bitcoin data directory](https://en.bitcoinwiki.org/wiki/Data_directory) on your host machine, or create a symbolic link of the directory into your home folder with the  name `bitcoin_data`.
Mounting this folder will ensure bitcoin data will be persistent.

```sh
podman run -d --pod bitcoin_pod --name bitcoin_container \
  -v ./config/bitcoin.conf:/root/bitcoin.conf `# config` \
  -v ~/bitcoin_data:/root/.bitcoin `# bitcoin data` \
  -v tor_cookie_ephemeral:/root/.tor `# tor control cookie` \
  bitcoin
```

## Electrum Personal Server

### Prerequisites

#### Setup config

* copy `config/config.ini_sample` to `config/config.ini`
* update `config.ini` with your master public key(s) in the `[master-public-keys]` section
* update additional configs as needed

#### Create wallet

EPS recommends creating an EPS specific wallet in your full node.

The following can be executed on your running bitcoin full node container:

```sh
docker exec bitcoin_pod_bitcoin bitcoin/bin/bitcoin-cli createwallet electrumpersonalserver true
```

#### Rescan wallet (optional)

if you need to load in historical transactions you will need to run the container with a one-time command with the blockheight of your earliest transaction.

```sh
docker exec bitcoin_pod_bitcoin bitcoin/bin/bitcoin-cli -rpcwallet=electrumpersonalserver rescanblockchain [block_height]
```

An alternative is to run EPS' rescan script which determines blockheight based upon date input.
See EPS documentation for more details.

```sh
docker exec -it bitcoin_pod_eps .local/bin/electrum-personal-server --rescan eps-config.ini
```

You can also use the `rescan.py` in this project, extracted from EPS, if you have access to `bitcoin-cli`

```sh
python3 rescan.py
```

### Build

```sh
podman build -t electrum_server -f electrum_server.Dockerfile
```

### Run

Follow the log file:

```sh
tail -F /tmp/electrumpersonalserver.log
```

The first time EPS is run with a particular bitcoin full node, it will import the addresses and then exit.  After this occurs you must run `docker-compose up` to re-start the container and start the actual server.  On Subsequent runs, the application need only be run once.

```sh
podman run -d --pod bitcoin_pod --name electrum_server_container \
  -v ./config/eps-config.ini:/root/eps-config.ini `# config` \
  -v ~/bitcoin_data:/root/.bitcoin `# bitcoin data` \
  -v /tmp:/tmp `# logs` \
  electrum_server
```

## FAQ

* Why am I getting EPS error "Requested wallet does not exist or is not loaded.  Wallet related RPC call failed, possibly the bitcoin node was compiled with the disable wallet flag"?
  * run the following on your full node:
  * `docker exec bitcoin/bin/bitcoin-cli loadwallet electrumpersonalserver`
  * if the above doesn't work, your node's wallet may be corrupt and may need to be re-created, and then re-scanned.
* Why is `podman pod start bitcoin_pod` not reliable?
  * Because some of these containers rely on the other containers to be running or have ports open, it is better to start the containers sequentially when they rely on one another.

## Todo/Limitations

* app versions are hard-coded
